# CipherStamp
✅📂⛓️ Verifying the integrity of digital files using Decentralized Timestamping on the Blockchain

# Why Cipherstamp?
The IT industry has boomed over the past few years with the implementation of a vast variety of new technology making everything smooth and streamlined. Despite of recent leaps forward, some aspects such as authenticity and tampering of data remain an issue even after countless efforts to add security. Protecting data privacy is a clear issue when it comes to university data, copyright claiming of patents, videos, images, etc. Not to mention the security implications that are in play today’s world if this data is not properly protected. This is where Blockchain comes into the picture. Blockchain network is known to be a unhackable, reliable chain of blocks where each block addresses the identity of previous block by storing hash values. The ability to verify the integrity of digital files is important for consumer and business applications alike. Especially if video files, satellite images are to be used as evidence in court, the ability to prove that a file existed in a certain state at a specific time and was not altered since is crucial. This system proposes the use of blockchain technology to secure and verify the integrity of video files. To demonstrate a specific use case for this concept, we present an application that can store the hash values of digital files on to the blockchain network and additionally it has File Retrieval System to gain access for the uploaded files. Once the Blockchain network confirms the transaction, the digital file’s hash is permanently secured in the tamperproof decentralized public ledger. Any subsequent attempt to manipulate the video/image is futile, because the hash of the manipulated footage will not match the hash that was secured in the blockchain. Using this approach, the integrity of video evidence cannot be contested. 

